In this video, we're going to write out an implementation for our order model.
So we're going to write out some description of the order model using some mongoose related code.
Let's get to it right away.
Back inside of my editor.
I want to very quickly give you just a very fast reminder.
We've been over this twice now inside the course.
If we go back to our service and find the models directory and then user is inside there.
So remember, whenever we're getting Mongoose and TypeScript to work together, a good way of doing
this is to write out those three interfaces at the top of the file.
One describes the properties that are used to create a user or create a record.
We've got another interface that describes all the properties that a saved document has, and then a
third interface to describe all the properties that the overall model it has.
And remember the model represents the overall collection.
We build that interface to describe the model, to specifically add in that one extra method right there,
the build method.
The whole reason that we're putting together that build method is just to allow TypeScript to do some
validation or type checking of the arguments that we're using to create a new document so that we got
that reminder out of the way.
Back to our order service inside of our CRC directory will make a new folder called Models and then
inside there a new file called Order Dots.
At the very top.
Let's get Mongoose.
Well, then create those three interfaces.
We don't need to export that.
My mistake.
So interface order adders.
Interface order, duck.
Extending magazine document.
And then order model.
Extending Mongoose model.
And this is a generic type.
So we will put in order doc like so.
So let's now provide some types for each of these different interfaces.
First off, order adders.
So this thing is going to have a user ID that is a string, a status for the order, which is going
to be a string as well.
We're going to come back and update the type on string in just a little bit.
But right now, we'll just leave it as a string.
Then expires at which will be a date object.
And then finally and this one's going to be a little bit surprising because back on this diagram over
here, I said that in order was going to have a ticket ID.
And so that implies that, well, we're going to have a ticket ID that is a string or something like
that.
But remember in the last video we just discussed that to actually relate an order with a ticket, we're
going to somehow embed a reference over to a ticket document.
So to do so and we'll go further into this feature in just a little bit, we're going to say that order
ATRs has to have a ticket property knot, ticket ID, a ticket property that is an instance of a ticket.
So we're going to write in ticket doc right there.
We do not have a ticket doc type inside of our orders service just yet.
So right now that's going to result in an error and we're not going to able to fix that for a little
bit.
So we're going to leave that for right now.
We'll come back to it in, discuss a little bit more about what's going on with this ref population
feature in a moment.
Next up is order dock.
So order documents are going to have the exact same set of properties that are required to create an
order.
Remember, the reason we create these two separate interfaces is because the properties that are required
to create an order might be different than the properties that actually end up on an order.
So that's why we got these two separate interfaces.
This project or this service right here is finally the first time where they are going to end up with
a different set of properties.
That's why we have the two separate ones.
But right now they are going to be temporarily identical.
So I'm going to take all the properties off of order adders that we just added and paste them down into
order doc as well.
Then after that, let's do our order model.
So all we're doing here is saying that a model has this one extra little method on it called build.
That's going to take an argument called adders.
That is of type order adders.
And out of that, we will get an order document.
Okay.
So there's our three interfaces.
So now let's build out our schema that actually describes the different properties and some rules about
them that we're going to have on an instance of an order.
So we'll create order schema.
This will be a new mongoose dot schema.
On the first argument right here, we'll have an object where we'll provide the different properties
we want Mongoose to worry about on in order.
So first off, there's going to be a user ID.
Its type is going to be string.
Remember the type right here of string.
This is actual kind of JavaScript code that really gets executed, whereas the interfaces up here are
typescript interfaces that get stripped out before our code is executed.
The types we're listing right here are TypeScript types.
So this is a lowercase string, whereas down here this is an actual value that will be consumed by mongoose.
This right here has a capital S string because that is the string constructor.
We definitely want to make sure.
That every order that gets created has a user tied to it.
So we'll put on a required true property.
Next up, we're going to say that every order has a status.
It's going to be a string.
And that will also be required.
So every order that gets created at all points in time, it must have a status to describe if it is
awaiting payment, if it's been canceled, if it's been purchased, and so on.
Next up expires at.
So this will be of type mongoose schema types.
Date.
That's how we say to mongoose that something is going to be a date property or a date object.
Now this one is not going to be required because there might be scenarios where we do not actually want
in order to ever expire, for example, after a ticket has actually been or an order has actually been
paid for.
If someone pays for an order, we no longer want to expire it, so we might eventually set expires out
to be null or undefined or something like that.
And then finally, here's where we're going to set up our actual reference between the order document
and a ticket.
So we're going to say that there is a ticket property.
Its type is going to be mongoose schema types object ID.
And then we're going to put on here as well ref of ticket.
So again, at a time back into this whole reference system that we just discussed in the last video
and we're going to get a deeper dive on that whole system in just a moment.
All right, so there is our mongoose schema, or at least the first argument we're now going to put
in the options argument.
So a second argument to this thing that is also going to be an object inside of here.
We're going to set that to JSON property.
Will define a transform function.
And remember, the whole goal of this thing is to take in some value that we're trying to turn into
JSON.
We're going to delete off that underscore ID property and set it on the ID property instead.
So we'll say red ID is red dot underscore ID, then delete red underscore ID.
Just a little bit more.
After all the schema stuff will then define the build method on the order schema statics object.
So this is what is going to give us the build method on the actual order model.
So just like we've done on our other services will say order schema statics dot build.
This is going to be a function that takes in some argument of adders and it must be of type order adders
never going to return a new order.
And throw the attributes inside there.
We get an air out of order right here, but that will go away in just a moment.
Right after we say Collins to order is our actual mongoose model.
Remember model is a generic function.
So we're going to put on those angled brackets and then through an ordered doc ordered a bottle.
Then the name of the collection.
Which is going to be order and then our order schema.
Then finally at the very bottom export order in curly braces.
So that's it.
Now at this point, there's really two big points of discussion or two things we need to kind of figure
out.
We need to understand a little bit more about how that ref system with Mongoose works, because what
is this type right here exactly?
Why is the type object ID as opposed to say type ticket or something like that?
We've got to figure out a little bit more on that side.
We need to make sure that we define these ticket doc interfaces somewhere inside of our project.
And then also I mentioned that we're going to give a better type two status right here to describe the
status of an order.
So we've got to figure that out as well.
So just a little bit work left.
Let's take a pause right here and tackle these problems in just a moment.